# web-calendar_php
A quickie web calendar done with PHP/MySQL/JQuery to be redone later with Node
This calendar app was adapted from a book, Pro PHP and JQuery, I was reading to catch up on PHP skills. I chose PHP as the platform because while it is old and a bit cumbersome writing, it is used by a vast majority of web hosts in the US and, as such, I have a few projects I'm working on for a few organizations, and thus need to get my practice in.
I will reproduce the calendar project as it is in the book, with some tweaking (using mysqli instead of PDO, which didn't work for me for some reason), but there are other places I will go back and reconfigure altogether. The sample in the book relies heavily on one class to do just about all the work, including producing the HTML for various forms and the calendar structure itself. I would distribute that work out more among various helper classes and the php output files themselves. But doing it that way the forms can be run through both PHP and Javascript as HTML and not have extra form production (cool, unless the form is really lengthy). In this model, since the Calendar class does all the work of creating the HTML, there's no need for JSON transfer betweeen it and javascript.
*Notes
*   I like the structure of the the calendar and admin classes and how they tie into each other
*   I haven't seen this project so far address the time code issue: the date comes out at Greenwich time, have to address for Eastern standard time, otherwise, the 'today' date will reflect a date 5 hours ahead of this time. Also some presentation issue with the formatting of day boxes that are not calendar dates.
*   Added some automation to some of the SQL statements as well as collecting the add-event form data (used associative arrays)
*   Added a few lines so that if the event title exceeds one line in the calendar, it will be truncated and "..." added after. Using the string length method works but isn't the best since it doesn't compensate for proportionally spaced fonts. I can either make the event title a monospaced font (which I'll do for now), or (better) see if CSS can handle this issue better than PHP.
*   Need to limit the amount of events displayed per day, need a day view of all events for the day.
*   Added authentication, adding now some jquery enhancements.
*   This calendar configuration currently does NOT use JSON, so one or more functons would have to be reconfigured slightly to accomplish that.